LUCID CHART

INTRODUCTION INTO NETWORKING
Data Transmission-

Packet: When a device makes a request over the internet, that request is broken into smaller, and easier to send "packets". The "hub" will then send the packets through the "bridge", and the bridge will bring it to it's requested destination.

Packet-Switching: This is how packets travel the internet. It is that there is no direct path to the place the packet should be, so it is transfered through the routers inbetween the hub and it's destination. With the packets being broken down and each taking a different path, the packets can sometimes end up out of order, and in this case, the receiving device will re organize it to be in order. 

Ip Address: A unique number assigned to every device that is connected to the internet. It can be compared to the adress that every house has, each one is unique and is used to help put a specific location to be found. 

DNS: DNS stands for “domain name system”. This is what gives the IP adress of the device requested. 

Protocol: It's what allows two different computers to comunicate in the same language, even though they might use different languages. 


  Networking Hardware
ia: A Hub connects all the devices on an internal network, and whenever it recieves data through a port, the hub sends that data to all other ports that are connected. This causes security concerns and it uses up more bandwith than it needs to.
    While a Swich does the same thing a hub does, but instead of sending the data it recieves to all other connected ports, it knows what the IP addresses are of each device on the internal network, so it is able to send the data to only that device. This saves bandwith and also helps keep the security of the data.
ib:A router is able to connect and send data to outside networks, while Hubs and Switches are only able to send data through their own internal networks. A router acts as " a gateway" of the network, because it sends information to the Switches and Hubs that can then send that data to the device that requested that data. 

  Network Topologies
ia: For topologies a "single point failure" is when the topologie is set up in a way that if even one point is broken, then the rest of the network fails. Topologies that have a single point of failure are the "Ring topologie", and the "bus topologie"
ib: The infastructure topologie is where each wireless device is connected to a wireless access point, which is connected to other wireless access points, which one is connected via cable. A wireless mesh network is where each device is connected to one single wireless acess point.
    I believe that a infastructure topologie is the better network setup. It makes it easier for devices to stay connected.
    
Network Design-
ia: My network is a infastructure network, where the router is connected to the switch, which is connected to 2 PCs and 1 wireless access point. 
The Printer is connected to the PC's, and there is a laptop connected to the wireless access point. 

NSA/CSS
ia: The NSA keeps the publics information secure, and it also works hard to keep gov't secrets confidential. 

 Cybersecurity and Encryption- 
 ia: As an Amazon group chat, I need confidentiality because the customer needs to know that no one who shouldn't be reading this will read the conversation. 
    I would also need integrity, meaning that the information I am giving to the consumer is the truth and that I am being true; if my integrity was bad, then people wouldn't trust what I say.
    Finally I would need accessability, so I could access information to then pass on to the person I am communicating with via "Amazon.com online chat"

ib: Signing into the "my tri-c space"- you need a username and password, and to convert it to a multi-factor authentication I would have to input the name of my dog.
  going to an ATM to withdraw money, you need your card and your PIN (personal Identification Number). This already is a multi-factor authentication proccess, but to make it more secure, the person would need to input their favorite food.
  When getting into your phone, you need to put in some password. This could be turned into a multi-factor authentication by also putting in a fingerprint or saying some phrase.
  
ic: 
-ACL (Access Control List): Pro-"Very simple to understand and maintain" ; Con-"but the main drawback is that each information resource is managed separately, so if a security administrator wanted to add or remove a user to a large set of information resources, it would be difficult for them to preform" The more users, the more difficult it becomes.
-RBAC (role-based access control): Pro- Easier to manage. The way it works is by classifing each user into a group, and then giving that group access to what they are allowed to access. Thus improving security. 

id: Cypher text is the message when it is encoded. This is after it is sent, but before it is recieved.
    The public key is the key that the sender used to encode the message, and the private key is the key that the reciever of the message uses to decode the cypherkey.
    
ie: We need a public key cryptography to make sure that 2 computers can communicate and keep their information secret. 

Cryptography-



